So typically what we did was we started a project and we jumped right into just kind of sketching,
you know, wire framing, user flows.
But typically what you want to do is before you start a project, you want to understand why you are
starting a project.
You want to understand basically what the problem is and why we should solution for it.
So what I'm going to do today is I'm going to bring you through a different type of way to start a project,
and that is what I call a product alignment canvas.
Now, that may sound a little scary or intimidating, but trust me, it isn't.
It's just about asking some basic questions about why we should be doing something and also learning
a bit about our assumptions around our users and other things.
So let's get started.
Essentially what we want to do is we want to get everyone in the same room who is involved in the project.
That can mean the product team, clients, stakeholders, users.
Now the product team probably consists of yourself, maybe other designers, developers, product managers,
QA.
The client usually has like maybe one person.
It may be 50 people, there may be a CEO, there's so many people.
But the people who really determine the success of the project should be in this meeting.
Now you could have users in this meeting.
Users could be like existing or potential users, but generally they aren't.
And you don't have the timeline to probably get a user in a meeting like this.
So you would need to make a lot of assumptions and we'll get to how to validate those after.
Now all these people are going to contribute to the success of the project.
So much information and expertise is what they hold now.
There's a sense of proper opinion on the subject matter that you're going to have to basically pull
out of these people.
So you really want to practice your facilitation skills because what we're going to be doing is we're
going to be asking a lot of questions.
They're going to be brainstorming.
And as you can see, I kind of have this template here.
And what I've done is there's a plug in.
Right here called product planning.
Now.
Let's wait for that to open.
But what product planner does is it gives us a bunch of different templates on different things.
Like we have a brainstorming template, basically product and planning or management and planning templates.
So here are a couple of there's assumption grids, there's road maps, Kanban boards.
If you're familiar with Agile, we have a Gan chart, retrospective documents.
So there's a bunch of different things that you can use.
We even have a persona template, so I've just kind of taken them from here.
What I would do is because they're all in like vector format, you can't really change the copy here.
As you can see, I would take these templates and make them your own so that way you can reuse them
over time.
So let's jump right in.
Now, there's several different parts of a product alignment canvas.
The goal is to explore, understand and to move forward.
What we want to do is we want to get to the bottom of the requirements and what we need to do for our
project.
Now we need to understand what success will look like in all different aspects, whether that's the
business aspect, whether that's based off of users, and that's why we're coming together to brainstorm
here.
Now, at the beginning of any project, you generally know very little.
You know, who are the users?
Why do they want this?
What are we solving for?
And you generally don't have much time to get up and running.
We often need to literally hit the ground running.
So what we're going to need is you can either use Figma I've done this remotely, either do this in
person, which is probably best.
But generally you would need a white board.
You would need the most important people in the room, some post-it notes, markers.
It would be great to have a note taker there to help you.
And one thing that's incredibly important is to have somewhere where you can jot down all your risky
assumptions.
So this little resource that I pulled from that plugin is really great.
Generally I'll just list them and then we can rank them after we're done the canvas.
But this actually plots them on some sort of graph here where we can delegate if they're risky.
How much of an assumption they are high and low risk are on the vertical axis and then on horizontal
axis we have the uncertain and certain.
So how much of an assumption this is?
So this could be anywhere like we don't know what the architecture of the app is going to be.
We have a good understanding, but this is high risk and we need to figure this out ASAP so that would
be placed there or we don't know who our users are, but we're going to make a bunch of assumptions
about them.
That's a very high risk card and you would feel pretty uncertain.
So that's something you would prioritize first.
And what we do next is we focus on the project goals, target users and a user journey.
In our next video, we're going to be talking about project goals.